Design Patterns

What is a design pattern?
Design patterns are used for addressing the design problems in software developemnt.
Helps makes code Reusable, flexible and maintainable.
Design pattern is a practical and proven solution to a recurring design problem.

Design Patterns:Elements of Reusable Object-oriented Software

Category of Patterns:
	Creational Patterns
	 Tackle how new objects are created
	 
	Structural Patterns
	 Describe how objects are connected to each other
	 
	Behavioral Patterns
	 Focus on how objects distribute work
	 How each object does a single cohesive function
	 How independent objects work towards a common goal

-----------------------
Singleton Pattern - Creational pattern
 Enforces only one object of a class
 Has the singleton object globally accessible
 
 Give a class a private constructor so that the constructor cannot be called outside the class
 Gate keeping by creating a getInstance
 
 Lazy creation- object is not created until needed
------------------------- 
Factory Method Pattern - Creational Pattern
 Act of instantiating an object to a certain class is called Concrete Instantiation. 
 Factory method pattern avoids Concrete Instantiation
 
 Benefits
	If there are multiple clients that want to instantiate the same set of classes, then by using a Factory object, you have cut out redundant code and made the software easier to modify.
	
 factory objectis not one of the gang of four pattern

 Factory Method pattern approaches the creation of specific types of objects in a different way. Instead of creating a separate object, the factory object, factory method uses a separate method in the same class to create the objects.
 
 Factory Method: The factory method design intent is to define an interface for creating objects, but the subclasses decide which class to instantiate.
 
 The factory method is made abstract and left empty. This is because the factory method should be defined by the subclasses.
-------------------------
Facade Pattern - Structural pattern
 Provides a single simplified interface for client classes to interact with the subsystem.	
 
 Facade does not add more functionality. A facade simply acts as a point of entry into your subsystem.
 
 A facade is a wrapper class that encapsulate a subsystem in order to hide the subsystem's complexity.
 
 While the facade design pattern uses a number of different design principles, it purpose is to provide ease of access to a complex subsystem. This is done by encapsulating the subsystem classes into a Facade class, and then hiding them from the client classes so that the clients do not know about the details of the subsystem.
 
  The facade design pattern
	is a means to hide the complexity of a subsystem by encapsulating it behind a unifying wrapper called a facade class; 
	removes the need for client classes to manage a subsystem on their own, resulting in less coupling between the subsystem and the client classes;
	handles instantiation and redirection of tasks to the appropriate class within the subsystem; 
	provides client classes with a simplified interface for the subsystem;
	acts simply as a point of entry to a subsystem and does not add more functionality to the subsystem. 
	
Adapter Pattern - Structural pattern
 Problem: The output of one system may not confirm to the expected input of another system. 
  The adapter design pattern will help facilitate communication between two existing systems by providing a compatible interface. 
  
   
 Parts of Adapter Pattern
 Client
  The client class will be part of your system that wants to use a third-party library or external system.
 Adaptee
  The adaptee is a class in the third-party library or external system to be used.
 Adapter
  The adapter class sits in between the client and the adaptee. It will implement a target interface which is the interface that the client will use. The adapter conforms to what the client is expecting to see.
  The client sends a request to the adapter using the target interface. The adapter will then translate the request into a message that the adaptee will understand. Once the translation is finished, it will send the translated request to the adaptee.
  The adapter essentially encapsulates the adaptee and presents a new interface, or appearance, to the client class. It does this by wrapping the adaptee’s interface and exposing a new target interface that makes sense to the client.
  
  An adapter is meant to:
  1. wrap the adaptee and expose a target interface to the client, 
  2. indirectly change the adaptee's interface into one that the client is expecting by implementing a target interface, 
  3. indirectly translate the client's request into one the adaptee is expecting, 
  4. and reuse an existing adaptee with an incompatible interface.